---
layout: post
title: Git grep
date: 2015-03-18 11:5:42
---

I've been using `git grep` for a while, and I have to thank my friend and ex-colleague at [BIZZBY](http://bizzby.com/) [Fabrizio Moscon](https://twitter.com/fmoscon) for introducing me to it.

What `git grep` does is _printing lines matching a pattern_, it looks through the files tracked in the repo's HEAD for lines matching a given pattern, and prints them.

If we look at it's man page we see that the command has a huge number of options, here's some that I find useful.

The simplest way to use it is `git grep foo`, which will print all the lines in all the tracked files where `foo` appears.

Sometimes the results list can be very dense, to improve readability we can use the `--break` option, that will print an empty line between the matches form different files, `git grep --break foo`.

Or maybe we'd like to look inside the matching files. We can make `git grep` open the matching files in a "pager", like `less` or `vim`, to explore it's content using `git grep -O foo`.

We can restring the search scope to a path appending it, like this: `git grep foo -- a/path/`.

But `git grep` is even more powerful, it supports Boolean expression to combine patterns, so we can do cool things like `git grep -e foo --and -e bar` or `git grep -e foo --and --not -e baz`. Noticed the `-e`? It means that the next parameter is a pattern, and it's required when using these operators.

`-e` is also useful when the pattern you want to use starts with a dash `-`, so that `git grep` doesn't read it as an argument.

And all this is just the tip of the iceberg! Have a look at `git grep --help` or `man git-grep` to find out more.

### Food for thought

* Look into other useful options.
* What are the most surprising combo that can be made git `git grep`?
* Real example of usages of the command that helped solved problems during development.
