---
layout: post
title: Inside the Git pull command
date: 2015-01-10 17:12:42
---

The `git pull` command is probably one of the most used. But how does it really work?

```bash
git pull [options] [<repository> [<refspec>...]]
```

As we can read in the [`git pull` documentation](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-pull), what this command does is running a `git fetch` with the given parameters and then a `git merge` to incorporate the retrieved heads into the current branch.

We now need to understand what `fetch` does, what are the parameters used for, and what `merge` does.

### [`fetch`](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-fetch)

This is the command to use to get up to date _refs__ from a given `repository`. _Refs_ is the git term used to group branches and tags.

The optional `refspec` parameter specifies which refs to and which local refs to update. 

> The format of a <refspec> parameter is an optional plus `+`, followed by the source ref <src>, followed by a colon `:`, followed by the destination ref <dst>. The colon can be omitted when <dst> is empty.

It's nice to have the power to map a source to a differently named destination, but in my opinion keeping everything aligned with the remote makes things simpler.

#### [`merge`](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-merge)

The `merge` command is certainly another famous one. What it does is _incorporating changes from the named commits, since the time their histories diverged from the current branch, into the current branch_.

Using the same example used in the documentation, given this tree:

```
      A---B---C topic
     /
D---E---F---G master
``` 

Running `git merge topic` from the `master` branch will _replay the changes made on `topic` since it diverged from `master`_ on top of it, and make a new commit with the result.

This means that the changes from `E` introduced by `A`, `B`, and `C` will all end up all together into a single new commit.

```
      A---B---C topic
     /         \
D---E---F---G---H master
```

To recap, `git pull origin` under the hood calls `git fetch origin`, which gets all the changes made in the remote repository named `origin`. Then `git merge` is called, which creates a new commit in the current branch to add all the changes fetched.

### Food for thoughts:

* What are the most interesting options for `pull`, `fetch` and `merge`?
* Usage examples of the refspec syntax of `fetch`
* How are the default values picked for these commands?